Data Warehouse Introduction-In computing, a data warehouse (DW or DWH),
also known as an enterprise data warehouse (EDW), is a system used for reporting and data analysis.
DWs are central repositories of integrated data from one or more disparate sources. They store current
and historical data and are used for creating analytical reports for knowledge workers throughout the
enterprise. Examples of reports could range from annual and quarterly comparisons and trends to detailed
daily sales analyses.
The data stored in the warehouse is uploaded from the operational systems (such as marketing, sales, etc.,
shown in the figure to the right). The data may pass through an operational data store for additional
operations before it is used in the DW for reporting.
A data warehouse is a relational database that is designed for query and analysis rather than for
transaction processing. It usually contains historical data derived from transaction data, but it can include
data from other sources. It separates analysis workload from transaction workload and enables an
organization to consolidate data from several sources.
In addition to a relational database, a data warehouse environment includes an extraction, transportation,
transformation, and loading (ETL) solution, an online analytical processing (OLAP) engine, client
analysis tools, and other applications that manage the process of gathering data and delivering it to
business users.
Definition -Different people have different definitions for a data warehouse. The most popular definition
came from Bill Inmon, who provided the following:
1.A data warehouse is a subject-oriented, integrated, time-variant and non-volatile collection of data in
support of management's decision making process.
Subject-Oriented: A data warehouse can be used to analyze a particular subject area. For example,
"sales" can be a particular subject.
Integrated: A data warehouse integrates data from multiple data sources. For example, source A and
source B may have different ways of identifying a product, but in a data warehouse, there will be only a
single way of identifying a product.
Time-Variant: Historical data is kept in a data warehouse. For example, one can retrieve data from 3
months, 6 months, 12 months, or even older data from a data warehouse. This contrasts with a
transactions system, where often only the most recent data is kept. For example, a transaction system may
hold the most recent address of a customer, where a data warehouse can hold all addresses associated with
a customer.